Welcome back.
Let's start writing some tests that are for asynchronous code.
If we go back to our script to dot test yes we can start off our first test by saying it calls sloppy
Star Wars API to get people
and again same syntax as we've seen before in our first test.
What can we do.
Well we can say swapping dot get people we'll give it the fetch API or the fetch function and then do
dot then and like I said you could pass down you are else here and we could do something called mocking
which we'll talk about later.
For now we're just sticking with this method but let's see what we can test.
We have the API that we're calling again.
It's going to return us a ton of data.
So again we do the dot then.
Just simple javascript and this dog then is going to return us some data remember it's going to return
our data.
Or it's going to return our count and results so in here inside of the dog then block we can do our
assertions expect data dot count
to equal
87 because remember if we go back to the Web site the account is eighty seven.
So hopefully data account matches eighty seven.
Let's see if that's the case.
I'm going to save and go back to running our tests.
Let me clear this and run NPM test
and we'll need to press A to run all tests all right.
So that worked that wasn't too hard we didn't do anything too too crazy.
What if we add a nother test.
I'm going to add another test here and it's going to say it's called swap B to get people with a promise.
Now this time around we'll use get people promise let's save all right.
Is that actually working.
It looks to be working I mean we get the tests six of them that half past but remember what I said we
always want to make sure that we fail our tests and check that the tests actually are checking what
we're what we want to check.
One tool that we can use with just is something called expect dot assertions and assertions are remember
assertion library.
Are these things these are assertions.
So using the expect dot assertions we can say within this it block we expect one assertion.
If we had to then we should say we expect to.
And this is a good way to test that these things are actually running especially with a synchronous
code.
Let me do one here.
I'm going to save
whoa what just happened are expect dot assertions one failed there were zero assertion calls.
So something's happening here where this test is passing but this is never being called and this is
a little gotcha with asynchronous tests you see when this happens during tests.
It's really really hard to debug because it's easy to not check that they work properly.
The problem is that the tests are actually completing as soon as the get people gets called.
And remember a promise returns a pending state.
So this is going to get returned before we actually receive the data how do we get around this.
How can we tell the test.
Hey don't just pass this test because nothing happened and we just returned a promise with a pending
state.
Wait until this is actually done and then keep going there's a few ways to do this.
The first way to do it is to use a single argument called done.
So instead of having an empty parameter here for the function we can have done that's that gets automatically
passed to a test and this says hey just just wait until the done callback is called before you actually
say this test is finished.
And you usually put it right after the expect call so let's say this is now done.
So let me save that
rate.
It passed.
Now we're saying hey don't pass this test until this is done just to test.
If I change this to zero this is failing because we have one assertion call awesome.
Now this is one way of doing it.
And the neat thing with this is that if for some reason this if this fiscal fails let's say that in
the script to dot J.S. This is actually an incorrect U.R.L. parameter that we're sending maybe we misspelled
people.
If I save this you see that I get an air call soppy to get people and I get an error here so that the
test waits until I'm actually done.
Very nice.
Now let's fix this.
Bring this back to one and talk about the other way that you can do this and this is really easy.
If your code uses promises like we have there is a simpler way that's probably less confusing for most
people to handle asynchronous test and this is another thing that I really like about just we can simply
instead of doing this just
return the promise and justice.
Smart enough to say oh because we're returning this I'm going to wait until this promise returns.
And if the promise is rejected the test will automatically fail which is very nice.
Again let's say this everything is passing.
If I misspell the API you are El again.
You see that the test automatically gets failed.
Now this is a little tricky.
You have to always make sure that you return in the promise if you omit this return stemming statement
as you we saw your test will complete before the promise actually gets resolved or rejected.
So here's a tip when running a synchronous test always do this always do the expect assertions always
test out that your assertions are being tested.
So let's finish this off.
Let's add a few more lines.
We'll say that in here we're going to add two assertions.
And again we want our return here and we'll add another assertion that says that we expect the data
results to have a length
and what can we use here.
We want to check maybe that the results we get at least five people are that the length is greater than
let's say five luckily for us there is a just cheat sheet and this just cheat sheet.
Well try to say that fast five times.
That's pretty hard actually has all these things that you can use for the test right in here.
Super super useful.
These are pretty much all you need to write the perfect tests and we see here that we have the to be
greater then method.
So let's use that.
I'm going to say to be greater then.
And again this is why I love just an most assertion libraries.
They just make everything read nicely in English.
So you understand exactly what's going on.
So I'm going to say to be greater than five let's say
all right we get a few errors so let's fix this test two assertions to be called but we only got one.
Why is that.
And I hit an error length of undefined and let's log out data to see what we're getting here so let's
to console door log data dot results
and I'm getting an undefined.
So it looks like over here.
Oh there you go.
I've noticed Maya I misspelled results here.
You're probably laughing at me right now.
But this happens a lot more than you think.
All right.
So let's see that.
That's good.
We're getting some response.
Let's remove the console log hit save.
And again this is another good reason to write test right.
Because I wouldn't have caught that mistake until I've actually run the app so I see here that I just
have a simple type error to be greater then again terrible at English.
This is t T.H. and
all right.
Everything is passing and what you just witnessed is how tests usually work.
They're constantly breaking they constantly breaking.
And you try to get to this green state and when you get to this green state it's like hallelujah.
This is so nice it feels so good to have everything green.
And things are working awesome.
All right.
I think that's good for now.
In the next video I want to talk to you a little bit about mocking.
I'll see you on that one.
Bye bye.